the written page you see on your screen
right now is entirely comprised of
meaningless characters the artist who
created this work of art is in some ways
participating in an affirming a set of
Chinese cultural conventions and in some
ways it's a subversive act of rebellion
against those conventions while I
suppose working within their strictures
the work of art here seen filling a
whole room in many ways resembles a
traditional set of Buddhist sutras or a
traditional set of Confucian texts it
evokes thousands of years of Chinese
cultural history and yet the whole
purpose of it is to rage against that
same tradition and that very use of
language and perhaps it's an active
rebellion against the thousands of hours
of focused hardwork care and attention
that every student in China is expected
to spend memorizing character after
character that is ultimately meaningless
the very meaninglessness of the Chinese
language here becomes I don't know a
kind of weapon or at least a way for the
artists to howl to howl out his
discontent after his experience of the
violent and extreme political conditions
in China political conditions that
called into question that cultural
tradition but failed to really challenge
transform or replace it I don't think
it's sufficient to just say that the
cultural context for this work of art is
China's Cultural Revolution nor that
it's the failure of the Cultural
Revolution I think we should look a
little bit more specifically at the
tradition of the so-called big character
poster big character poster is a
tradition of shall we say freedom of
speech it was formally listed in the The
Four Freedoms that Chinese citizens were
guaranteed during the Cultural
Revolution although they were freedoms
that people very much used at their own
peril and this tradition burst forth
again in the democracy wall movement of
1978-1979 which is more recent it's
closer to the time of this artist
undertaking this work might be more of a
direct influence on it than the Cultural
Revolution itself there are people a few
people who will sincerely claim that
Chinese citizens had more freedom of
speech not less during these brief
periods when they had the right to make
these big character posters
anyone and everyone who studies Chinese
politics and Chinese history wonders at
some point or ask their professor at
some point to what extent are the
extreme characteristics of Chinese
politics linked to the extreme
characteristics of the Chinese written
language in one obvious sense it's
remarkable that anyone would take the
time to use handwritten calligraphy to
fill a poster or to fill a wall in the
Chinese language it is simply much more
time-consuming requiring much more
disciplined focused effort over many
more hours than to write up a poster in
English French Spanish almost any other
language on earth so that is one
difference on a shallow level but I
think what's most remarkable here is not
the act of authorship it's the intensity
of interest of the readership in any
other country anywhere in the world
people can write up a bunch of
complaints about what's wrong with
government and those posters will most
likely be completely ignored even if
they're lavishly Illustrated but they'll
certainly be ignored if they're just in
one person's shaky handwritten
penmanship as all of these posters are
from the brief period of the democracy
wall movement 1972 1879 when people were
claiming and exercising briefly the
freedoms that had been promised to them
during the earlier period of the
Cultural Revolution you had this freedom
but it was very much freedom at your own
risk
when you wrote your opinion you were
gambling with your life Wei Jingsheng
wrote what became a famous set of
complaints against the government's
basically calling for democratization of
China freedom of speech that sort of
thing and he ended up losing 18 years of
his life in a prison cell as a result so
to say that people had more freedom of
speech at this time is I think very
specious and insincere and false but it
was a remarkable period of history when
you could write your opinion on a single
piece of paper
post it to a wall and first dozens then
hundreds then thousands of people
ultimately millions of people would read
and care about your opinion if you look
at this picture carefully there aren't
just observers gathered around reading
there are also people copying down what
was written on the posters by hands
taking notes and those notes were in
many cases then later published formally
or informally but illegally published
him as dissident tracks without you know
against the will of the government and
then those copies were shared from
person to person and traveled throughout
China why would an artist create a book
that nobody can ever read why would an
artist spend years working on the
calligraphy in lavish beautiful detail
until this book becomes a room filling
art exhibition for outsiders one of the
most surprising reactions to this work
of art is to feel insulted by it and
this relates to a Chinese cultural
concept of a student insulting his
teacher by intentionally writing a
nonsensical character in an essay the
reason why this insult was not treated
as just something cheeky or shallow is
that in the old days before we had
portable computers if there was just one
2 character that a teacher didn't know
with an essay or assignment from a
student the teacher would have to spend
quite some time using a dictionary by
hand looking up the character radical by
radical to try to ascertain whether or
not this was an error or if it were
simply a character that the teacher
didn't know just as the artist is doing
here on a massive scale pupils would
whether just out of a sense of
cheekiness or I don't know as an actual
pointed insult or maybe to cover up just
their own lack of knowledge when they
don't know the answer to a question
pupils in China would invent characters
that resembled a real character enough
resemble a real word that it would lead
the teacher to waste 30 minutes looking
through paper dictionaries trying to
figure out what this word was supposed
to be and then the teacher would
they'd be furious and punish the student
for having written what's called a ghost
character but the artists intent here is
not to deceive an examiner I think
without knowing the Chinese language and
without really knowing the details of
Chinese politics we can see in this a
kind of response equivalent to data ISM
as an artistic movement in as much as
dadaism was in large part a reaction
against the madness of the First World
War and the early surrealism surrealism
in as much as it was a reaction against
fascism
and the early years of of world war ii
wanting to respond to the hollowness the
self-important and imperious quality of
political speech and political works of
art not with a direct critique but
simply by screaming in its silent way
what was this supposed to mean to anyone
and what was it supposed to mean to the
artist himself as I've said in many ways
this particular work of art acts as a
sort of subversive and unsettling
protest against the political conditions
that the artist had lived through in the
fifty years leading up to its creation
but it also in a profound and unsettling
way challenges cultural and political
conventions going back in China
thousands of years Chinese people like
no other people on this earth bear from
their early childhood forward the burden
of the books hundreds and hundreds of
hours thousands of hours spent leaning
over a table practicing these characters
and most often with an authoritarian
teacher who tells you that you're not
allowed to ask what they mean you're not
allowed to ask why they look that way
and that the explanations are given that
are often nonsensical and internally
contradictory you just have to accept
you just have to memorize there isn't
time to break down and explain for you
piece by piece what the characters ever
were supposed to resemble or mean and in
many cases the teacher doesn't know in
most cases nobody knows
[Music]
Oh